So it's good that we can set up some global styling and some global colors but can we also say that
for example the toolbar should always have our primary background color and what we can do and what
I mentioned on that slide too is we can do that on a component level so we can go to our off page to
the H2 HDL file and they are on the toolbar.
Indeed you can set a color property.
And in case you're not sure whether you can set this you know you can go to the component docs there
or go to the toolbar section and then on I toolbar you'll learn that you can set your color there if
you scroll down you see you can set the color property you could by the way all the set demoed if you
want to override that ionic detected automatically.
So if you want to say it should attack the mode for the entire app but for it is toolbar I actually
want to style it as if it were running on an ISIS device all the time then you could set this too but
that that's not what I want to focus on.
I want to focus on the color so we know we can set the color.
And of course I can set the color here to let's say primary.
Now if we set this to primary ionic will behind the scenes automatically select all the right things
as variables to color our toolbar with the primary color and please alter a note to not just set that
background color to primary but it is smart enough to set the text here.
Cue the contrast color of our primary color to contrast color can be seen in the variables SPSS file.
Here is the color primary.
Here is the contrast color.
So ionic is smart enough to style everything on the toolbar not just the background but as soon as we
log in we see that the next toolbar we see thousand half that and this makes sense because that is that
declarative styling I mentioned on the slide we control the view look of this toolbar with the color
property or attribute but only on the off page.
We didn't add this on our discover page.
Now obviously you can add this to every toolbar in your application but if you know that every toolbar
should have that color manually adding this all the time is pretty cumbersome.
And thankfully there is an easier way we go back to the official docs to the guide section and then
there to theming advanced if we scroll down a bit you will see that there are certain application colors
you can set and these are basically see us as variables special see us as variables ionic will watch
out for that are styling the important core building parts of your app for example you could set up
your general background color which currently is white and you could set this to a different color or
your general text color by the way for background and text you also need to provide a RG b value because
of the way ionic consumes and uses these colors in its components.
You can also set up a general toolbar background toolbar border color and a toolbar color which colors
the components in the toolbar.
So things like the title and that looks like what we need here.
Now you can therefore go to your variables and in that root section you could now add dash dash ion
toolbar background.
Right.
Dad was this or that.
Is this C is as variable.
Now you can set this to any color you want.
Now of course I could now set this to black or to any color I want I can also copy that primary color
here to use my primary color.
But the drawback offsetting a hard coded color here is that if I really want to use my primary color
whenever I change my primary color up here I will also have to change it down there and that is not
really what I want to do.
And therefore instead we can simply consume our C as its variable here.
So that is the variable name and thus far you only learn how you can set up C as as variables like this.
And by the way you don't have to set them up in the root selector.
You can set up see us as verbals anywhere the place where you set them up the finds where they can be
consumed though what you set up in route can be used anywhere in your application in any average C as
as rule if you set something up a let's say your old class selector then you can only use it in that
own class selector or child elements of the element that has that class selector.
So here does this set up in root and therefore we can use this variable anywhere.
And I want to use it well still and root down there.
And how do you use a C as its variable.
You use the VAR function which is built into C S S add to wah.
You pass the name of the variable and this will extract that variable value and apply it to this property
on the left which here happens to be a variable as well.
But this could also be something like the general background color so it could be a normal C is as property
as well the Wah function also takes a second argument by the way.
And dad would simply be a fallback value in case there's a variable here can't be resolved.
Now we know that it will always be resolvable but you could set something like black here as a fallback
value to be super safe so now if we save that and we have a look at our application we see that we have
the background color but now ionic is not smart enough to automatically color the text as well or it's
not so much being smart or not being smart.
It's simply not the behavior ionic wants to show.
Instead these variables are there to give us fine grained control over to look and feel of some important
ionic parts.
And if we want to change the text color or the toolbar component color as well we have to do that with
this ion toolbar color variable here.
So the solution is to simply set this as well.
And here the value of course should be the contrast color to our primary color.
So here I will copy iron color primary contrast.
Let's grab that and added here and if we do this and we save this we should see that our toolbar looks
exactly the way we want it to look.
But now if I do log in we also see that this is the case for the other toolbars in our application and
that of course is pretty sweet because we now have a set up that required pretty much no effort.
And we now have a global styling for the toolbar or a global behavior for the toolbar with just two
lines of CSX code added just as a side note what you can still do.
You can still go to a certain component.
Let's say that off page again and there set color secondary for example on the toolbar.
Now we do have our global setup with that ion toolbar background and ion toolbar color.
And yet if you set this this will override your global settings.
And that's also what I talked about on the slides.
You can always override the global settings.
They have the least highest priority.
So you're accustomed see as s rules can override or these built in attributes of certain components.
Of course not just for the toolbar but also for the button and for average components if a component
for example allows you to set a color attribute if you set a color attribute.
And this does not fit your global default then this is fine.
And this will override your global default.
So you still have full control here and you can apply it as in cases where you need a different look
on a single page.
But when the general look on the Abbott pages or on the other places in your app.